JobPrep/MockInterviewPrepInstructors.md, before:

# Mock Interview Guidelines

This guide is intended for DevLeague Instructors to be read in preparation of giving mock interviews to students during the final week of class.

DevLeague believes in the value of an authentic interview experience. As with every skill we teach, it's important for the students to learn the technique and then practice, practice, practice. A mock interview will not only help the students perfect their technique, but it will also allow them to get valuable feedback and coaching on their performance.

#### A typical mock interview:

1. Initial soft questions about the students experience.
1. Technical inteview question
1. Debrief with student

## General Guidelines

It's important for this to be as authentic a interview process as possible in order to best help the students prepare for their future jobs. Here are some tips:

- **Pick a company** - Let the student know ahead of time what company they will be ineterviewing for.
- **Represent the technical side of the business** - Be the CTO or Lead Engineer
- **Resist helping the student if they are stuck** - It's best to resist helping them solve the problem while they are working on it - wait till you debreif with them after the interview.

## Tips for students to prep for the mock interview

- **Know yourself and the potential employer** - spend time thinking about your goals, talents, skills, abilities, and experiences (what positive stories can you tell).
- **Research before you go** - find literature or information online about the organization and its products so you are well informed.
- **Create Your Elevator Speech** - prepare a 2-5 minute sales pitch about yourself and rehearse with a friend or family.
- **Make a list of 5 questions to ask the interviewer about the organization and/or the position.**
- **Practice Whiteboarding** - Solve problems without the aid of your text editor or the internet. Be sure to practice talking through your solution outloud. You will look crazy talking to yourself, this is okay.
- **Review Algorithms** - Sorting algorithms, Linked Lists, Red Black trees, Search algorithms, etc.
- **Review Concepts** - Review vocab, design patterns, frameworks, libraries
- **Practice coding problems** - Practice solving code interview style questions from [Hacker Rank](https://www.hackerrank.com/), [Coder Byte](https://coderbyte.com/), [Code Wars](http://www.codewars.com/), and [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/). Try setting time limits for yourself, or solving them on a whiteboard
- **Look sharp**

## Soft Questions

In order to help coach students on their answers to soft questions - ask them about their experience. Some sample questions include:
* Can you tell me a little bit about yoruself?
* What are your short term and long term goals?
* What do you like to do on the weekends?
* How do you set and manage goals?
* Where do you predict the industry will be in three years?
* Could you describe your dream job?
* What project or acheivement that you are proud of?
* What would you like me to know about you that isn't on yoru resume?
* Why should I hire you?
* You seem to be making a big career change, why is that?
* What is your greatest weakness?
* Why did you want to be a dev?
* What was your biggest mistake and what did you learn from it.
* What do you do if you disagree with a boss or coworker at work, and how you handled it?
* How do you resolve issues in a team?
* What do you care about most when reviewing somebody else's code?
* Tell me about a situation where you had to solve a difficult problem.
* Describe a time when you anticipated potential problems and developed preventive measures.
* Please describe a time when you faced a significant obstacle to succeeding with an important work project or activity.
* How do you find the middle item in a linked list?
* Tell me about a time you were stuck on a problem and your process of solving that issue?
* When can you start?

## Technical Interview

In order to gauge their technical skills - have them whiteboard a technical challenege that they have never solved before. Interviews are supposed to be di cult If they don’t get every – or any – answer immediately, that’s ok!  Take note of the following while they are solving the problem:

### Five Steps to a Technical Questions

A technical interview question can be solved utilizing a five step approach:

1. Ask your interviewer questions to resolve ambiguity
1. Design an Algorithm
1. Write pseudo-code first, but make sure to tell your interviewer that you’re writing pseudo-code! Otherwise, he/she may think that you’re never planning to write “real” code, and many interviewers will hold that against you
1. Write your code, not too slow and not too fast
1. Test your code and carefully  x any mistakes

* **Did they talk it Out?** Did they bring you along with their problem solving process? This can be as simple as outlining what they’re about to do when they’re doing it (“So, I’ll need a for-loop to iterate through all the items in this list”) or posing problems to yourself as you go (“This means I’ll need a better way to access the information; hmm, I’ll get back to that later”).

* **Did they whiteboard their solution?** The point is to use your time up front to structure your approach, not to try to write all the code in your head before you touch marker to whiteboard.

* **Did they bring their People Skills, Too** Just because they’re going for an engineering job doesn’t mean they can slack on being personable and responsible.

### Technical Mock Interview Questions

Feel free to get creative with the technical challenge, but here are some ideas:

#### Write an function to check if a word is a palindrome.

Write a function to check if a word is a palindrome. That means that the word is spelled the same whether it's read forwards or backwards. Example: `racecar`, `tacocat`, or `hannah`. Note: You cannot use the array reverse method to solve this.

#### Convert a binary search tree to a sorted double-linked list.

We can only change the target of pointers, but cannot create any new nodes.
For example, if we input a binary search tree as shown on the left side of the Figure 1, the output double-linked list is shown on the right side.

![99c21d95-3b66-4192-a111-38b7467c1010](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/4650739/15620366/85e1d35a-23f5-11e6-9184-1c42970b7ea3.png)

**Figure 1:** The conversion between a binary search tree and a sorted double-linked list

* **Write an algorithm to rotate a matrix by 90 degrees**

```javascript
A = {1,2,3,
    4,5,6,
    7,8,9}
```

then after 90 degree rotation A becomes:

```javascript
A = {7,4,1,
     8,5,2,
     9,6,3}
```

#### Interview Challenges from Google:

1. ##### Make a counter
  - Make a counter, but the number must be stored in an array. So `[8, 0, 0, 1]` increments to `[8, 0, 0, 2]`.
  - What is the time complexity of this algorithm?

1. ##### Implement a sort of autocorrect when you hit the wrong key
Implement a sort of autocorrect when you hit the wrong key so "WEARCH" would return "SEARCH"
given a map with the key and its surrounding keys:

`S => { a, q, w,e,d, x,z}`

The function should return true if a string is actually a word.
and they asked about the number of possible combinations

## Follow Up Questions
Did the student ask any follow up questions - this is an important step in order to show interest in the comapany. Remember that it's just important for the student to be interviewing the company as it is for the company to be interviewing the student. Here are some questions I like to ask during interviews:

* What types of projects are you working on?
* Future plans/projects?
* What are you looking for in a candidate?
* Why is this position open?
* Can you tell me more about the team I will be working with?
* How would you describe your company culture?
* What have you enjoyed most about working for [Company?]
* What constitutes success at this position and your firm?
* Will I be hearing from you or should I contact you?
* Is there anything I've said today that might hurt my chances of being hired here?
* Do you have any hesitations about my qualifications?
* How many ppl are you hiring?
* What constitutes success at this position and your firm?
* What are you looking for in a candidate?
* Next Steps?

## Resources
* [Cracking the Coding Interview](http://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
* [Programming Interviews Exposed: Secrets to Landing Your Next Job ](http://www.amazon.com/Programming-Interviews-Exposed-Secrets-Landing/dp/1118261364)

Commit message:

adds light primer guide for conducting interviews

JobPrep/MockInterviewPrepInstructors.md, after:

# Mock Interview Guidelines

This guide is intended for DevLeague Instructors to be read in preparation of giving mock interviews to students during the final week of class.

DevLeague believes in the value of an authentic interview experience. As with every skill we teach, it's important for the students to learn the technique and then practice, practice, practice. A mock interview will not only help the students perfect their technique, but it will also allow them to get valuable feedback and coaching on their performance.

#### A typical mock interview:

1. Initial soft questions about the students experience.
1. Technical inteview question
1. Debrief with student

## General Guidelines

It's important for this to be as authentic a interview process as possible in order to best help the students prepare for their future jobs. Here are some tips:

- **Pick a company** - Let the student know ahead of time what company they will be ineterviewing for.
- **Represent the technical side of the business** - Be the CTO or Lead Engineer
- **Resist helping the student if they are stuck** - It's best to resist helping them solve the problem while they are working on it - wait till you debreif with them after the interview.

## Tips for students to prep for the mock interview

- **Know yourself and the potential employer** - spend time thinking about your goals, talents, skills, abilities, and experiences (what positive stories can you tell).
- **Research before you go** - find literature or information online about the organization and its products so you are well informed.
- **Create Your Elevator Speech** - prepare a 2-5 minute sales pitch about yourself and rehearse with a friend or family.
- **Make a list of 5 questions to ask the interviewer about the organization and/or the position.**
- **Practice Whiteboarding** - Solve problems without the aid of your text editor or the internet. Be sure to practice talking through your solution outloud. You will look crazy talking to yourself, this is okay.
- **Review Algorithms** - Sorting algorithms, Linked Lists, Red Black trees, Search algorithms, etc.
- **Review Concepts** - Review vocab, design patterns, frameworks, libraries
- **Practice coding problems** - Practice solving code interview style questions from [Hacker Rank](https://www.hackerrank.com/), [Coder Byte](https://coderbyte.com/), [Code Wars](http://www.codewars.com/), and [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/). Try setting time limits for yourself, or solving them on a whiteboard
- **Look sharp**

## Soft Questions

In order to help coach students on their answers to soft questions - ask them about their experience. Some sample questions include:
* Can you tell me a little bit about yoruself?
* What are your short term and long term goals?
* What do you like to do on the weekends?
* How do you set and manage goals?
* Where do you predict the industry will be in three years?
* Could you describe your dream job?
* What project or acheivement that you are proud of?
* What would you like me to know about you that isn't on yoru resume?
* Why should I hire you?
* You seem to be making a big career change, why is that?
* What is your greatest weakness?
* Why did you want to be a dev?
* What was your biggest mistake and what did you learn from it.
* What do you do if you disagree with a boss or coworker at work, and how you handled it?
* How do you resolve issues in a team?
* What do you care about most when reviewing somebody else's code?
* Tell me about a situation where you had to solve a difficult problem.
* Describe a time when you anticipated potential problems and developed preventive measures.
* Please describe a time when you faced a significant obstacle to succeeding with an important work project or activity.
* How do you find the middle item in a linked list?
* Tell me about a time you were stuck on a problem and your process of solving that issue?
* When can you start?

## Technical Interview

In order to gauge their technical skills - have them whiteboard a technical challenege that they have never solved before. Interviews are supposed to be di cult If they don’t get every – or any – answer immediately, that’s ok!  Take note of the following while they are solving the problem:

### Five Steps to a Technical Questions

A technical interview question can be solved utilizing a five step approach:

1. Ask your interviewer questions to resolve ambiguity
1. Design an Algorithm
1. Write pseudo-code first, but make sure to tell your interviewer that you’re writing pseudo-code! Otherwise, he/she may think that you’re never planning to write “real” code, and many interviewers will hold that against you
1. Write your code, not too slow and not too fast
1. Test your code and carefully  x any mistakes

* **Did they talk it Out?** Did they bring you along with their problem solving process? This can be as simple as outlining what they’re about to do when they’re doing it (“So, I’ll need a for-loop to iterate through all the items in this list”) or posing problems to yourself as you go (“This means I’ll need a better way to access the information; hmm, I’ll get back to that later”).

* **Did they whiteboard their solution?** The point is to use your time up front to structure your approach, not to try to write all the code in your head before you touch marker to whiteboard.

* **Did they bring their People Skills, Too** Just because they’re going for an engineering job doesn’t mean they can slack on being personable and responsible.

### Technical Mock Interview Questions

Feel free to get creative with the technical challenge, but here are some ideas:

#### Write an function to check if a word is a palindrome.

Write a function to check if a word is a palindrome. That means that the word is spelled the same whether it's read forwards or backwards. Example: `racecar`, `tacocat`, or `hannah`. Note: You cannot use the array reverse method to solve this.

#### Convert a binary search tree to a sorted double-linked list.

We can only change the target of pointers, but cannot create any new nodes.
For example, if we input a binary search tree as shown on the left side of the Figure 1, the output double-linked list is shown on the right side.

![99c21d95-3b66-4192-a111-38b7467c1010](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/4650739/15620366/85e1d35a-23f5-11e6-9184-1c42970b7ea3.png)

**Figure 1:** The conversion between a binary search tree and a sorted double-linked list

* **Write an algorithm to rotate a matrix by 90 degrees**

```javascript
A = {1,2,3,
    4,5,6,
    7,8,9}
```

then after 90 degree rotation A becomes:

```javascript
A = {7,4,1,
     8,5,2,
     9,6,3}
```

#### Interview Challenges from Google:

1. ##### Make a counter
  - Make a counter, but the number must be stored in an array. So `[8, 0, 0, 1]` increments to `[8, 0, 0, 2]`.
  - What is the time complexity of this algorithm?

1. ##### Implement a sort of autocorrect when you hit the wrong key
Implement a sort of autocorrect when you hit the wrong key so "WEARCH" would return "SEARCH"
given a map with the key and its surrounding keys:

`S => { a, q, w,e,d, x,z}`

The function should return true if a string is actually a word.
and they asked about the number of possible combinations

## Follow Up Questions
Did the student ask any follow up questions - this is an important step in order to show interest in the comapany. Remember that it's just important for the student to be interviewing the company as it is for the company to be interviewing the student. Here are some questions I like to ask during interviews:

* What types of projects are you working on?
* Future plans/projects?
* What are you looking for in a candidate?
* Why is this position open?
* Can you tell me more about the team I will be working with?
* How would you describe your company culture?
* What have you enjoyed most about working for [Company?]
* What constitutes success at this position and your firm?
* Will I be hearing from you or should I contact you?
* Is there anything I've said today that might hurt my chances of being hired here?
* Do you have any hesitations about my qualifications?
* How many ppl are you hiring?
* What constitutes success at this position and your firm?
* What are you looking for in a candidate?
* Next Steps?

## Super Light Interview Primer
Always two interviewers per interview. Interviewers will have questions prepared before
either together or standalone. Throughout the interview make note of the question asked
and more importantly the answers given. At the very end, after the questions and whiteboard challenge and final "questions for us (for interviewers)", call "SCENE" and give feedback to the interviewee, e.g. How good the answers given were, any corrections/improvemments that should be made (wrong terms used, etc).

1. Start with Culture questions
1. Work experience questions
1. Code Challenge
1. "Any questions for us?" (interviewers will assume the role of the company and answer questions as such. Make note of the Interviewees questions for feedback)
1. Thank you and close interview
1. Give interviewee feedback

Interviews are one hour long, ideally the first 10 - 15 minutes are for questions. 40 minutes for coding challenge (+/- 10 mins). 5 mins for "questions for us", 10 mins for user feedback.

## Resources
* [Cracking the Coding Interview](http://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
* [Programming Interviews Exposed: Secrets to Landing Your Next Job ](http://www.amazon.com/Programming-Interviews-Exposed-Secrets-Landing/dp/1118261364)
