JobPrep/README.md, before:

# Job Preperation

## Pre-Requisites
This material should come after student's have completed or come close to completing their **final projects**. This module is intended to help students find a job after they have completed the core technical components of DevLeague.

## Class Format / Time to Allow for Subject
This material usually takes 1 full day to introduce and up to a week's worth of exercises and reinforcement. Student's are expected to keep working on this material after they graduate from the program until they find their first job.

## Topics & Expected Outcomes

1. Introduce career and job opportunities upon immediately graduating DevLeague
  - Junior Developer
    - Discuss job duties and expectations of you from a typical employeer
    - Discuss fair pay and equity
    - It's okay to say "I don't know". Just follow it up with "..., but I can find out for you."
1. Technical Interviews - Discuss how to get prepared for a typical Technical Interview
  - **Know yourself and the potential employer** - spend time thinking about your goals, talents, skills, abilities, and experiences (what positive stories can you tell).
  - **Research before you go** - find literature or information online about the organization and its products so you are well informed.
  - **Create Your Elevator Speech** - prepare a 2-5 minute sales pitch about yourself and rehearse with a friend or family.
  - **Make a list of 5 questions to ask the interviewer about the organization and/or the position.**
  - **Practice Whiteboarding** - Solve problems without the aid of your text editor or the internet. Be sure to practice talking through your solution outloud. You will look crazy talking to yourself, this is okay.
  - **Review Algorithms** - Sorting algorithms, Linked Lists, Red Black trees, Search algorithms, etc.
  - **Review Concepts** - Review vocab, design patterns, frameworks, libraries
  - **Practice coding problems** - Practice solving code interview style questions from [Hacker Rank](https://www.hackerrank.com/), [Coder Byte](https://coderbyte.com/), [Code Wars](http://www.codewars.com/), and [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/). Try setting time limits for yourself, or solving them on a whiteboard
  - **Look sharp** :sparkles:
1. Discuss Resumes and Poirtfolios
  - Start prepping your portfolio right after you graduate
  - Github is your portfolio until you get 3 to 5 professional projects under your belt.
  - Get yoru resume prepped with the [DevLeague resume outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18cP_bDl6O1QnJIQV__cxTAU2c6q6aEGPB-Jvejc2oBg/edit?usp=sharing).
1. Discuss how to get a job after they graduate from DevLeague.
  - Start prepping for interviews **today**
      - Prepare your answers now for normal interview questions
      - Record yourself answering questions
  - Do homework on your employer before you interview
  - Look sharp
  - You are not worth your salary at your previous job, you are worth the value you add at your new job
  - Network and hustle
  - No one cares about what you want - tell people what you can provide for them.
     - You can learn some really hard skills really fast
1. Discuss freelancing as an option:
  - Never do a website for free - charge something - you are bringing the whole dev community down when you do work for freelancing
  - Educate your clients
  - Always charge something
  - Have a contract it - it protects you and you client (Trust me)
  - Get paid up front
  - Sole Proprietorship vs LLC
  - Know how to draft up a contract
  - Managing yoruself
  - What do you do if something goes bad?
1. Discuss equity and salary
  - What's fair market price for your new skills?
1. Discuss what to do after a student graduates from DevLeague.
  - DO NOT GIVE UP ON STUDYING
  - WRITE CODE ALL THE TIME
  - Be sure to ask DevLeague alumni and instructors technical questions on Slack.
  - Come to hackathons and Devleague events
  - Support past and future students
  - Stay is touch with your cohort mates and DevLeague - Expand your network

# Suggested Format for Delivery
The following format is meant to be a guideline for effective delivery. Instructors can present material in another way if it is more effective for the students.

1. Discuss the Job Preperation concepts outlined above.
  - This topics can be covered at any point during the course, but they should all be covered by the time the students graduate. Most if it will should be covered the weeks preceeding graduation.
1. Perform Mock Interviews with each student
1. Present **Equity and Negotiating** talk with Russell.
1. Have the students submit their resumes for review from our team
1. If students are preparing for interviews at big tech companies, cover common data structures and algorithms that were not covered in the core curriculum
1. Have each student fill out the [DevLeague Course Evaluation](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdigqivbhLeaoeSvr2lfXf5pgiLtqvWWv7QrhAAp8ZGP2Y00g/viewform)
1. Graduate
1. PROFIT!

# Additional Resources

- [Ten Rules for Negotiating a Job Offer](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/ten-rules-for-negotiating-a-job-offer-ee17cccbdab6#.a94agj415:)
- [DevLeague resume Outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18cP_bDl6O1QnJIQV__cxTAU2c6q6aEGPB-Jvejc2oBg/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Equity for Startups](https://gist.github.com/isaacsanders/1653078)
- [Equity Compensation information for Startups](https://github.com/jlevy/og-equity-compensation)
- [Cracking the Coding Interview](http://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
- [LLC vs Sole Proprietorship](http://info.legalzoom.com/llc-vs-sole-proprietorship-4342.html)
- [Angel List](https://angel.co/)
- [500 Miles](http://www.500miles.io/)
- [Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/)
- [The Beginner’s Guide to Freelance](https://medium.com/code-like-a-girl/the-beginners-guide-to-freelance-ed89c4051c26#.81bsk1f9a)

Commit message:

added google notes, and added additional content to job prep module

JobPrep/README.md, after:

# Job Preperation

## Pre-Requisites
This material should come after student's have completed or come close to completing their **final projects**. This module is intended to help students find a job after they have completed the core technical components of DevLeague.

## Class Format / Time to Allow for Subject
This material usually takes 1 full day to introduce and up to a week's worth of exercises and reinforcement. Student's are expected to keep working on this material after they graduate from the program until they find their first job.

## Topics & Expected Outcomes

1. Introduce career and job opportunities upon immediately graduating DevLeague
  - Most students graduate and become Junior Developers
    - Discuss job duties and expectations of you from a typical employeer
    - Discuss fair pay and equity
    - It's okay to say "I don't know". Just follow it up with "..., but I can find out for you."
1. Technical Interviews - Discuss how to get prepared for a typical Technical Interview
  - Do not regurgitate DevLeague marketign materials during an interview. Most interviewers do not care about the program you went through, they care about what you can immediately bring to their team/company.
  - Focus on your ability to learn new technical concepts quickly - Companies want Junior Develoeprs that can get up to speed as quickly as possible with as little as possible assistance.
  - A technical interview question can be solved utilizing a five step approach:
    1. Ask your interviewer questions to resolve ambiguity
    1. Design an Algorithm
    1. Write pseudo-code first, but make sure to tell your interviewer that you’re writing pseudo-code! Otherwise, he/she may think that you’re never planning to write “real” code, and many interviewers will hold that against you
    1. Write your code, not too slow and not too fast
    1. Test your code and carefully  x any mistakes
  - **Talk it Out** Did you bring your interviewer along with your problem solving process? This can be as simple as outlining what you’re about to do when you’re doing it (“So, I’ll need a for-loop to iterate through all the items in this list”) or posing problems to yourself as you go (“This means I’ll need a better way to access the information; hmm, I’ll get back to that later”).
  - **Whiteboard your solution** The point is to use your time up front to structure your approach, not to try to write all the code in your head before you touch marker to whiteboard.
  - **Bring your People Skills, Too** Just because you’re going for an engineering job doesn’t mean you can slack on being personable and responsible.
  - **Know yourself and the potential employer** - spend time thinking about your goals, talents, skills, abilities, and experiences (what positive stories can you tell).
  - **Research before you go** - find literature or information online about the organization and its products so you are well informed.
  - **Create Your Elevator Speech** - prepare a 2-5 minute sales pitch about yourself and rehearse with a friend or family.
  - **Make a list of 5 questions to ask the interviewer about the organization and/or the position.**
  - **Practice Whiteboarding** - Solve problems without the aid of your text editor or the internet. Be sure to practice talking through your solution outloud. You will look crazy talking to yourself, this is okay.
  - **Review Algorithms** - Sorting algorithms, Linked Lists, Red Black trees, Search algorithms, etc.
  - **Review Concepts** - Review vocab, design patterns, frameworks, libraries
  - **Practice coding problems** - Practice solving code interview style questions from [Hacker Rank](https://www.hackerrank.com/), [Coder Byte](https://coderbyte.com/), [Code Wars](http://www.codewars.com/), and [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/). Try setting time limits for yourself, or solving them on a whiteboard
  - **Look sharp** :sparkles:
1. Discuss Resumes and Poirtfolios
  - Start prepping your portfolio right after you graduate
  - Github is your portfolio until you get 3 to 5 professional projects under your belt.
  - Get yoru resume prepped with the [DevLeague resume outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18cP_bDl6O1QnJIQV__cxTAU2c6q6aEGPB-Jvejc2oBg/edit?usp=sharing).
1. Discuss how to get a job after they graduate from DevLeague.
  - Start prepping for interviews **today**
      - Prepare your answers now for normal interview questions
      - Record yourself answering questions
  - Do homework on your employer before you interview
  - Look sharp
  - You are not worth your salary at your previous job, you are worth the value you add at your new job
  - Network and hustle
  - No one cares about what you want - tell people what you can provide for them.
     - You can learn some really hard skills really fast
1. Discuss freelancing as an option:
  - **Note** DevLegaue does not suggest starting out as a freelance web developer. We find that students have better outcomes if they get full-time work at a company that can continue to provide mentorship.
  - **Note** These notes are for student's that want to do freelancing on the side or in the future after gaining more experience.
  - Never do a website for free - charge something - you are bringing the whole dev community down when you do work for freelancing
  - Educate your clients
  - Always charge something
  - Have a contract it - it protects you and you client (Trust me)
  - Get paid up front
  - Sole Proprietorship vs LLC
  - Know how to draft up a contract
  - Managing yoruself
  - What do you do if something goes bad?
1. Discuss equity and salary
  - This talk is delivered by *Russell**
  - What's fair market price for your new skills?
1. Discuss what to do after a student graduates from DevLeague.
  - DO NOT GIVE UP ON STUDYING
  - WRITE CODE ALL THE TIME
  - Be sure to ask DevLeague alumni and instructors technical questions on Slack.
  - Come to hackathons and Devleague events
  - Support past and future students
  - Stay is touch with your cohort mates and DevLeague - Expand your network

# Suggested Format for Delivery
The following format is meant to be a guideline for effective delivery. Instructors can present material in another way if it is more effective for the students.

1. Discuss the Job Preperation concepts outlined above.
  - This topics can be covered at any point during the course, but they should all be covered by the time the students graduate. Most if it will should be covered the weeks preceeding graduation.
1. Perform Mock Interviews with each student
1. Present **Equity and Negotiating** talk with Russell.
1. Have the students submit their resumes for review from our team.
  - We will give notes adn feedback to each student to help them craft a powerful resume.
1. If students are preparing for interviews at big tech companies, cover common data structures and algorithms that were not covered in the core curriculum
1. Have each student fill out the anonymous [DevLeague Course Evaluation](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdigqivbhLeaoeSvr2lfXf5pgiLtqvWWv7QrhAAp8ZGP2Y00g/viewform)
1. Graduate
1. PROFIT!

# Additional Resources

- [Ten Rules for Negotiating a Job Offer](https://medium.freecodecamp.com/ten-rules-for-negotiating-a-job-offer-ee17cccbdab6#.a94agj415:)
- [DevLeague resume Outline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18cP_bDl6O1QnJIQV__cxTAU2c6q6aEGPB-Jvejc2oBg/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Equity for Startups](https://gist.github.com/isaacsanders/1653078)
- [Equity Compensation information for Startups](https://github.com/jlevy/og-equity-compensation)
- [Cracking the Coding Interview](http://www.amazon.com/Cracking-Coding-Interview-Programming-Questions/dp/098478280X)
- [LLC vs Sole Proprietorship](http://info.legalzoom.com/llc-vs-sole-proprietorship-4342.html)
- [Angel List](https://angel.co/)
- [500 Miles](http://www.500miles.io/)
- [Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/)
- [The Beginner’s Guide to Freelance](https://medium.com/code-like-a-girl/the-beginners-guide-to-freelance-ed89c4051c26#.81bsk1f9a)
