AsynchronousProgramming/Promises/README.md, before:

# Promises

## Suggested order of delivery

1. Intro (whiteboard)
1. [Slideshow](https://github.com/devleague/slides-promises)
1. [Live Coding - Setup Bluebird on Express](https://gist.github.com/JoeKarlsson1/fb92086324e5de6cd93e)
1. Check in
1. Verify (acceptance)

## Topics

- Defining Promises [grok]
- States of a promise [about]

## Acceptance

- Student can utilize promises in an application.

## Slides

1. [Slideshow](https://github.com/DevLeague/slides-Intro-to-OOP/)

## Work

- The students are going to make first application with a real database, by adding a PSQL database to your Articles Products and Express, Oh My! project using promises and PSQL. [Assignment](https://gist.github.com/JoeKarlsson1/495e9f002737e1693ddf)

## Additional Resources

1. [pg-promises](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-promise)
1. [Callback Hell](http://callbackhell.com/)
1. [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
1. [Great Talk on Promises](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qbKWsbJ76-s)
1. [Sequelize](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/en/latest/)

Commit message:

add link to live code repo to promise module

AsynchronousProgramming/Promises/README.md, after:

# Promises

## Suggested order of delivery

1. Intro (whiteboard)
1. [Slideshow](https://github.com/devleague/slides-promises)
1. [Live Coding - Setup Bluebird on Express](https://gist.github.com/JoeKarlsson1/fb92086324e5de6cd93e)
1. Check in
1. Verify (acceptance)

## Topics

- Defining Promises [grok]
- States of a promise [about]

## Acceptance

- Student can utilize promises in an application.

## Slides

1. [Slideshow](https://github.com/DevLeague/slides-Intro-to-OOP/)

## Livecode

You may want to live code some examples that show how promises can be used instead of callback functions.

This is a repo that students can clone down, just to get some data using calls to api routes to get static data: https://github.com/devleague/Callbacks-vs-Promises

## Work

- The students are going to make first application with a real database, by adding a PSQL database to your Articles Products and Express, Oh My! project using promises and PSQL. [Assignment](https://gist.github.com/JoeKarlsson1/495e9f002737e1693ddf)

## Additional Resources

1. [pg-promises](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pg-promise)
1. [Callback Hell](http://callbackhell.com/)
1. [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
1. [Great Talk on Promises](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qbKWsbJ76-s)
1. [Sequelize](http://docs.sequelizejs.com/en/latest/)
