_DevelopmentEnvironment/README.md, before:

# Development Environment

# Operating System :computer:

## OSX 

[Mac Keyboard Shortcuts Reference][osx_hotkeys_url]

#### Hotkeys for great work flow!
![cat displaying great prowess with a keyboard][cat_typing]

<kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd>

A quick switch back to the last application you had in focus.

---

Hold <kbd>⌘</kbd> + press <kbd>Tab</kbd>

Will bring up a list of applications that are active. Pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> repeatedly will cycle through the applications in the menu from left-to-right. To bring an application into the foreground make sure it is selected then release the <kbd>⌘</kbd> key.

After Hold <kbd>⌘</kbd> + press <kbd>Tab</kbd> then press <kbd>`</kbd>

Same functionalty as Hold <kbd>⌘</kbd> + press <kbd>Tab</kbd> except that it cycles right-to-left. You can switch between <kbd>Tab</kbd> and <kbd>`</kbd> to help target application icons in the menu.

---

#### Package Management :package:

**Homebrew** [Link][brew_url] *see webpage for installation instructions*

```
Homebrew allows a user to install/update/uninstall programs (packages/binaries) via the command-line. These packages come prepackaged with default installation instructions so the installation process is much quicker than installing the same software manually.

It Just Works™
```

**Homebrew Cask** [Link][cask_url]

```
Cask focuses on everyday Applications like Google Chrome, Spotify, etc.
```

#### Window Management :metal:

**Spectacle** [Link][spectacle_url] *Easily organize windows without using a mouse*

```
Amazing tool (AND FREE)! Strive to be the best keyboard warrior you can be.
```

<!-- link references related to OSX -->
[cat_typing]: https://media.giphy.com/media/lJNoBCvQYp7nq/giphy.gif
[osx_hotkeys_url]: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201236 "Hotkeys for the OSX operating system"
[brew_url]: http://brew.sh/ "The missing package manager for OS X"
[cask_url]: http://caskroom.io/ "Like Homebrew but for macOS applications"
[spectacle_url]: https://www.spectacleapp.com/ "Move and resize windows with ease"

---

## Linux (generally Debian-flavor, e.g. Ubuntu) :finnadie:

#### Package Management :package:

#### Window Management :metal:

**i3wm** [Link][i3wm_url] *window manager for GNU/Linux and BSD operating systems*

<!-- link references related to Linux -->
[i3wm_url]: https://i3wm.org/ ""
---

## Windows (not recommended) :information_desk_person:

#### Package Management :package:

#### Window Management :metal:

<kbd>Window Key</kbd>+<kbd>Up/Down/Left/Right Arrow</kbd>

```
Windows has window management built-in!
```

---

# Command-line

## Bash shell

## Zsh shell

---

# Git Work Flow Tools

## SourceTree

## GitKraken

---

# Text Editors

## Sublime Text

#### Package Management

## VIM

#### Package Management

---

# Documentation Tools

## Dash App

Commit message:

adds a section for tips on learning hotkeys

_DevelopmentEnvironment/README.md, after:

# Development Environment

# Operating System :computer:

## OSX 

#### Hotkeys for great work flow!

[Mac Keyboard Shortcuts Reference][osx_hotkeys_url]

![cat displaying great prowess with a keyboard][cat_typing]

<kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd>

A quick switch back to the last application you had in focus.

---

Hold <kbd>⌘</kbd> + press <kbd>Tab</kbd>

Will bring up a list of applications that are active. Pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> repeatedly will cycle through the applications in the menu from left-to-right. To bring an application into the foreground make sure it is selected then release the <kbd>⌘</kbd> key.

After Hold <kbd>⌘</kbd> + press <kbd>Tab</kbd> then press <kbd>`</kbd>

Same functionalty as Hold <kbd>⌘</kbd> + press <kbd>Tab</kbd> except that it cycles right-to-left. You can switch between <kbd>Tab</kbd> and <kbd>`</kbd> to help target application icons in the menu.

---

#### Package Management :package:

**Homebrew** [Link][brew_url] *see webpage for installation instructions*

```
Homebrew allows a user to install/update/uninstall programs (packages/binaries) via the command-line. These packages come prepackaged with default installation instructions so the installation process is much quicker than installing the same software manually.

It Just Works™
```

**Homebrew Cask** [Link][cask_url]

```
Cask focuses on everyday Applications like Google Chrome, Spotify, etc.
```

#### Window Management :metal:

**Spectacle** [Link][spectacle_url] *Easily organize windows without using a mouse*

```
Amazing tool (AND FREE)! Strive to be the best keyboard warrior you can be.
```

<!-- link references related to OSX -->
[cat_typing]: https://media.giphy.com/media/lJNoBCvQYp7nq/giphy.gif
[osx_hotkeys_url]: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201236 "Hotkeys for the OSX operating system"
[brew_url]: http://brew.sh/ "The missing package manager for OS X"
[cask_url]: http://caskroom.io/ "Like Homebrew but for macOS applications"
[spectacle_url]: https://www.spectacleapp.com/ "Move and resize windows with ease"

---

## Linux (generally Debian-flavor, e.g. Ubuntu) :finnadie:

#### Package Management :package:

#### Window Management :metal:

**i3wm** [Link][i3wm_url] *window manager for GNU/Linux and BSD operating systems*

<!-- link references related to Linux -->
[i3wm_url]: https://i3wm.org/ ""
---

## Windows (not recommended) :information_desk_person:

#### Package Management :package:

#### Window Management :metal:

<kbd>Window Key</kbd>+<kbd>Up/Down/Left/Right Arrow</kbd>

```
Windows has window management built-in!
```

---

# Command-line

## Bash shell

## Zsh shell

---

# Git Work Flow Tools

## SourceTree

## GitKraken

---

# Text Editors

## Sublime Text

#### Package Management

## VIM

#### Package Management

---

# Documentation Tools

## Dash App

---

# The Hotkey Warrior Manifesto
> The mouse/trackpad is hot lava, don't touch it!

Learning hotkeys and weening yourself off of the mouse will improve your workflow. The less time you spend reaching for your mouse then locating it visually on screen and interacting with the GUI and then moving back to your keyboard, will mean more time for you to focus your mental energy on problem solving, coding, and staying focused.

**tips for memorizing hotkeys**
1. Each week aim to **know about** 3-5 hotkeys and write them down and keep it near your workspace, like a post-it note or index card near or attached to your monitor.
1. Throughout the week use these hotkeys. By the end of the week you should have 2-3 memorized because you have been using those the most.
1. Repeat the process the following week with a new set of hotkeys.

As the weeks go by your hand will get used to the chords patterns and you'll be able to memorize more hotkeys each week.

**Caveats**
- Don't try to learn too many hotkeys at once.
- Aim for quality not quantity. More useful hotkeys are better than knowing **all the hotkeys**.

**A word about "unix-pinky" aka hitting that control button with your pinky**
The placement of the control key isn't the best though luckily you can reprogram your keyboard layout at software level (via your operating system) with open-source tools. A common re-mapping scheme is to change the <kbd>CAPS LOCK</kbd> key to <kbd>CTRL</kbd> instead.

See **Keyboard re-mapping** section for your operating system for more information.
