Algorithms/LinkedLists/README.md, before:

# Linked Lists

## Pre-Requisites
This material should come after **revealing module pattern** and definitely before **MVC**. Students should already be familiar with **requiring external modules** and **exporting modules**.

## Class Format / Time to Allow for Subject
This material usually takes 1 hour to introduce and 1 to 2 days to implement all the Linked List methods in JavaScript.

## Topics & Expected Outcomes

#### Levels of Understanding
Students will have *one of three* levels of understanding about each topic upon completion of this module.
- **grok**: fully understand the topic in order to replicate code, communicate, and explain concepts without referring to any notes.
- **explain**: understand enough about the topic to describe concepts without referring to notes.
- **know about**: understand enough to look up further documentation when asked about the subject.

---

- Linked Lists General [grok]
- Linked Lists Methods [teach]
  - Create Node
  - Delete Node
  - Find Node
- Linked List Concepts [about]
  - Singly linked list
  - Doubly Linked List
  - Circular Linked List

# Suggested Format for Delivery
The following format is meant to be a guideline for effective delivery. Instructors can present material in another way if it is more effective for the students.

1. Introduce Linked Lists (whiteboard a Linked List)
1. Present **Linked List** Slideshow: [Linked Lists Slideshow](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-linked-lists)
1. Assign **Linked List Generator**: [JS Linked Lists](https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list)
1. Have the students whiteboard their solution in small groups
1. Check in with students and their understanding of **Linked Lists**, and **Linked List methods** (talk)
1. Verify that students have met the minimum required understanding before moving on.

## Acceptance
- Students have all tests passing on their linked list implementation
- Students can whiteboard Linked List solution on the whiteboard and explain the following:
  - Create Node
  - Delete Node
  - Find Node

# Slides & Examples

#### Linked List Basics
- Link: [Linked Lists Slideshow](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-linked-lists)
- Time Needed to Present: < 45 minutes
- Type: **Slideshow**

# Exercises & Projects
The following exercises and projects state an average time alotted. A session is about 3 hours. There are 3 sessions in a day: (1) After the morning challenge up to lunch, (2) after lunch up to dinner, (3) after dinner until the end of class.

#### Linked List Generator
- Repository: [JS Linked Lists](https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list)
- Average Time Alotted: 4 sessions
- Individual or Group: Individual Exercise
- Completed Example: [Completed Linked List](https://github.com/JoeKarlsson1/data-structures/blob/master/linked-list/linkedList.js)
- Concepts Practiced: *Linked List Basics*

# Additional Resources

#### Linked Lists on Wikipedia
- Link: [Linked Lists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
- Concepts: *Linked List Basics*

#### Linked Lists on Kahn Academy
- Link: [Khan Academy Algorithms Couse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
- Concepts: *Linked List Basics*

#### What's the differnce between Array's and Linked Lists?
- Link: [What's the differnce between Array's and Linked Lists?](https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-differences-between-arrays-and-linked-lists
- http://www.i-programmer.info/programming/)

#### Linked Lists on Kahn Academy
- Link: [Khan Academy Algorithms Couse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
- Concepts: *Linked List Basics*

Commit message:

Update Linked List to make sure students grok by reference

Algorithms/LinkedLists/README.md, after:

# Linked Lists

## Pre-Requisites
This material should come after **revealing module pattern** and definitely before **MVC**. Students should already be familiar with **requiring external modules** and **exporting modules**.

## Class Format / Time to Allow for Subject
This material usually takes 1 hour to introduce and 1 to 2 days to implement all the Linked List methods in JavaScript.

## Topics & Expected Outcomes

#### Levels of Understanding
Students will have *one of three* levels of understanding about each topic upon completion of this module.
- **grok**: fully understand the topic in order to replicate code, communicate, and explain concepts without referring to any notes.
- **explain**: understand enough about the topic to describe concepts without referring to notes.
- **know about**: understand enough to look up further documentation when asked about the subject.

---

- ByReference and ByValue [grok]
- Linked Lists General [grok]
- Linked Lists Methods [teach]
  - Create Node
  - Delete Node
  - Find Node
- Linked List Concepts [about]
  - Singly linked list
  - Doubly Linked List
  - Circular Linked List

# Suggested Format for Delivery
The following format is meant to be a guideline for effective delivery. Instructors can present material in another way if it is more effective for the students.

1. Clarify if not already clear how object and array assignments to variables are by reference and what that means
1. Introduce Linked Lists (whiteboard a Linked List)
1. Present **Linked List** Slideshow: [Linked Lists Slideshow](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-linked-lists)
1. Assign **Linked List Generator**: [JS Linked Lists](https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list)
1. Have the students whiteboard their solution in small groups
1. Check in with students and their understanding of **Linked Lists**, and **Linked List methods** (talk)
1. Verify that students have met the minimum required understanding before moving on.

## Acceptance
- Students have all tests passing on their linked list implementation
- Students can explain what ByReference and ByValue mean and illustrate it if asked
- Students can whiteboard Linked List solution on the whiteboard and explain the following:
  - Create Node
  - Delete Node
  - Find Node

# Slides & Examples

#### Linked List Basics
- Link: [Linked Lists Slideshow](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-linked-lists)
- Time Needed to Present: < 45 minutes
- Type: **Slideshow**

# Exercises & Projects
The following exercises and projects state an average time alotted. A session is about 3 hours. There are 3 sessions in a day: (1) After the morning challenge up to lunch, (2) after lunch up to dinner, (3) after dinner until the end of class.

#### Linked List Generator
- Repository: [JS Linked Lists](https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list)
- Average Time Alotted: 4 sessions
- Individual or Group: Individual Exercise
- Completed Example: [Completed Linked List](https://github.com/JoeKarlsson1/data-structures/blob/master/linked-list/linkedList.js)
- Concepts Practiced: *Linked List Basics*

# Additional Resources

#### Linked Lists on Wikipedia
- Link: [Linked Lists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
- Concepts: *Linked List Basics*

#### Linked Lists on Kahn Academy
- Link: [Khan Academy Algorithms Couse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
- Concepts: *Linked List Basics*

#### What's the differnce between Array's and Linked Lists?
- Link: [What's the differnce between Array's and Linked Lists?](https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-differences-between-arrays-and-linked-lists
- http://www.i-programmer.info/programming/)

#### Linked Lists on Kahn Academy
- Link: [Khan Academy Algorithms Couse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list)
- Concepts: *Linked List Basics*
