JavascriptFundamentals/README.md, before:

# Javascript Fundamentals

## Pre-Requisites
This material should come after **day0** module and definitely before **OOP**. Students should be familiar with Variables, Functions, and primitive data types. Students should also have their environments ready and these technologies installed: Node (and NPM), Git, Sublime Text 3.

## Class Format / Time to Allow for Subject
This material covers the first week of Dev League. Each day is introduced to at least one new topic with exercises for reinforcement. Each lecture and assignment should upon the previous day's topic.

## Topics & Expected Outcomes
This module covers the basics of programming with Javascript along with some core concepts, design patterns, and work flow tools. Students are expected to use these concepts throughout the course which will further enforce their understanding as they move through the modules ahead.

#### Levels of Understanding
Students will have *one of three* levels of understanding about each topic upon completion of this module.
- **grok**: fully understand the topic in order to replicate code, communicate, and explain concepts without referring to any notes.
- **explain**: understand enough about the topic to describe concepts without referring to notes.
- **know about**: understand enough to look up further documentation when asked about the subject.

---

#### JavaScript REPLs
- Student's should **grok** of the ways to run JavaScript.
  - Live code each way:
    - node REPL
    - Node source file
    - Chrome JavaScript console
    - HTML script tag
    - Web REPL

#### JavaScript Operators
- Student's should be able to *grok* all fo the operators available in JavaScript.
  - Arithmetic operators
  - Assignment operators
  - Comparison and Logic Operators

#### Variables
- Student's should be able to **grok** variables.

#### Primitive Data Types
- Student's should be able to **grok** Primitive Data Types.

#### JavaScript Objects
- Student's should be able to **grok** JavaScript Objects.
- EVERYTHING IS AN OBJECT
- Student's should be able to **grok** accessing object values.

#### Functions
- Student's should be able to **grok** Functions.
- Student's should be able to **grok** invoking functions.
- Student's should be able to **grok** arguements and parameters.

#### Hoisting
- Students should be able to **explain** why hoisting is done by the interpreter.
- Recommended: Given any Javascript code snippet, the student should be able to produce on a whiteboard what the "hoisted" code may look like.

#### Throwing Errors
- Student's should be able to **grok** Throwing Errors.

#### Strict Mode
- Student's should be able to **grok** Strict Mode.
- Student's should be able to **explain** why we use strict mode and it's benifits.

#### Closures
- Students should be able to **explain** closures.
  - Closure is when a function is able to remember and access its lexical scope even when that function is executing outside its lexical scope.
- Recommended: When given code snippets, be able to identify where a closures might occur. And why closures exist in Javascript and how they are utilized.

#### Module Pattern
- Students should be able to **explain** why the module pattern is used and how to implement this pattern in javascript.
- Students should be able to create a module when asked to both in Node and Browser environments.

#### Arrays (sans functional methods)
- Students should be able to **explain** what an Array is and its uses.
- Recommended: Student should be able to correcly communicate ways of accessing and mutating values within an array.

#### Chrome Dev Tools - Source Tab
- Students should be able to **explain** what the Source Tab is in Google Chrome.
- Recommended: Students should be using this feature from here until the REST OF THEIR LIVES (or something better comes along).

#### Context, and Call, apply, bind
- Students should be able to **explain** context and how it applies and also why these methods exists along with their use cases.

#### Linked Lists
- Students should **grok** this data structure and be able to communicate its features.

# Suggested Format for Delivery

1. Intro Hoisting (half-day)
    - Present **js-basics** slides: [JS Basics](https://github.com/devleague/js-basics)
        - Whiteboard exercises: [Exercises](https://github.com/devleague/DevLeague-Modules/blob/hoisting-whiteboarding/JavascriptFundamentals/whiteboard-hoisting.md)
        - Note: Decouple hoisting from js-basic slides.
1. Functions
    - Assign **JS Functions**: [JS Functions](https://github.com/devleague/js-functions)
1. Strict Mode
    - Present **Strict Mode** slides: [Strict Mode](http://slides.com/theremix/strict-mode)\
1. Arrays (sans functional-methods)
    - Present **JS Arrays** slides: [JS Arrays](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-arrays)
    - Assign **Array Methods**: [Array Methods](https://github.com/devleague/array-methods)
1. Module Pattern
    - Present **Revealing Module Pattern** slides [Revealing Module Pattern](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-objects-module-patterns)
    - Assign [JS Calcualtor](https://github.com/devleague/js-calculator)
1. Closures
    - Present **Closures** slides [Closures](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-closures)
    - Assign assignments:
        - [Secret Number Generator](https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator)
        - [The Vault](https://github.com/devleague/The-Vault)
        - [Foreclosure](https://github.com/devleague/foreclosure) _only when done, for Advanced students_
1. Chrome Dev Tools - Debugging with Source Tab
    - Present **Chrome Dev Tools** slides: [Chrome Dev Tools](https://github.com/devleague/slides-debugging-in-browser)
1. Pair Programming & Closures
    - Assign **Cash register** [Cash Register](https://github.com/devleague/Cash-Register)
        - notes: This project can span a few days.
        - when announcing, discuss Pair Programming, Simple Single Git repo strategy, whiteboarding, and show finished examples.
            - clone both, show finished product in this order
            - [https://github.com/taylorak/Cash-Register](https://github.com/taylorak/Cash-Register)
            - [https://github.com/SpaceToastCoastToCoast/Cash-Register](https://github.com/SpaceToastCoastToCoast/Cash-Register)
        - topics: closures, modules, adds complexity of browser environment.
1. Context
    - Present **Context** slides: [Context](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-this)
1. Call, apply, bind
    - Present **Call, Apply, Bind** slides: [JS Call, Apply, Bind](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-call-apply-bind)
    - Assign **Context Exercise**: [Context Exercise](https://github.com/devleague/Context-Exercise) (needs more work)
1. Linked Lists
    - See [Linked Lists Module](https://github.com/devleague/DevLeague-Modules/tree/master/Algorithms/LinkedLists) for slides and assignments.

# Slides & Examples

#### Hoisting
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/js-basics (decouple hoisting from js-basic slide)](https://github.com/devleague/js-basics)
- Time needed to present: 1 hour 30 minutes
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Notes: It was helpful to have two sublime windows open. One window should the code typed, and in the other we show how the compiler converts our code by hoisting variables and functions. With additional resources, this can also be a soft-exercise after to help reinforce the topic.

#### Array
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-arrays](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-arrays)
- Time needed to present: 1 hour
- Type: **Assignment**
- Notes: Workshop style works well.

#### Closures
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-closures](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-closures)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 45 minutes
- Notes: A lot of abstractions in this section and live-coding and having the students drive the conversation can help ease students into topic.

#### Module Pattern
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-objects-module-patterns](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-objects-module-patterns)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 1 hour
- Notes: A lot of abstractions in this section and live-coding and having the students drive the conversation can help ease students into topic.

#### JS Calculator exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/js-calculator](https://github.com/devleague/js-calculator)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: 1 session
- Stretch Goals: Code Review, History of Calculations, etc.

#### Secret Number Generator exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator](https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: < 1 session

#### The Vault exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/The-Vault](https://github.com/devleague/The-Vault)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: < 1 session

#### Foreclosure exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator](https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: > 1 session over few days. **OK** to lecture on different topics but have students come back to this.
- Notes: This assignment is the hardest and should be assigned last.

#### Array Methods exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/array-methods](https://github.com/devleague/array-methods)
- Average Time Alotted: < session
- Type: **Assignment**

#### Chrome Dev Tools - Source Tab
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-debugging-in-browser](https://github.com/devleague/slides-debugging-in-browser)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 1 hour 30 minutes

#### Cash Register exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/Cash-Register](https://github.com/devleague/Cash-Register)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: > 1 session
- Notes: Adds DOM complexity.

#### Context
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-this](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-this)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 45 minutes

#### Call, Apply, Bind
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-call-apply-bind](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-call-apply-bind)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 45 minutes

#### Linked Lists
- Link: [http://slides.com/jasonsewell/linked-lists#/](http://slides.com/jasonsewell/linked-lists#/)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 1 hour

#### Linked Lists exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list](https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: 2 sessions
- Notes: Aim for a Friday assignment so that students can have a full day Saturday to work on this and then Monday

# Additional Resources

#### Hoisting

#### Closures
- [Closures as a Princess Story](https://gist.github.com/sgnl/9a168d695373f09f64d5dee7d985bd99)
- [You Don't Know JS - Closures and Scope](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/scope%20%26%20closures/)

#### Module Pattern

#### Arrays (sans functional methods)

#### Chrome Dev Tools - Source Tab

#### Context, and Call, apply, bind

Commit message:

Added a link to Node Debugging on Chrome
Video by Paul Irish from Node Summit SF

JavascriptFundamentals/README.md, after:

# Javascript Fundamentals

## Pre-Requisites
This material should come after **day0** module and definitely before **OOP**. Students should be familiar with Variables, Functions, and primitive data types. Students should also have their environments ready and these technologies installed: Node (and NPM), Git, Sublime Text 3.

## Class Format / Time to Allow for Subject
This material covers the first week of Dev League. Each day is introduced to at least one new topic with exercises for reinforcement. Each lecture and assignment should upon the previous day's topic.

## Topics & Expected Outcomes
This module covers the basics of programming with Javascript along with some core concepts, design patterns, and work flow tools. Students are expected to use these concepts throughout the course which will further enforce their understanding as they move through the modules ahead.

#### Levels of Understanding
Students will have *one of three* levels of understanding about each topic upon completion of this module.
- **grok**: fully understand the topic in order to replicate code, communicate, and explain concepts without referring to any notes.
- **explain**: understand enough about the topic to describe concepts without referring to notes.
- **know about**: understand enough to look up further documentation when asked about the subject.

---

#### JavaScript REPLs
- Student's should **grok** of the ways to run JavaScript.
  - Live code each way:
    - node REPL
    - Node source file
    - Chrome JavaScript console
    - HTML script tag
    - Web REPL

#### JavaScript Operators
- Student's should be able to *grok* all fo the operators available in JavaScript.
  - Arithmetic operators
  - Assignment operators
  - Comparison and Logic Operators

#### Variables
- Student's should be able to **grok** variables.

#### Primitive Data Types
- Student's should be able to **grok** Primitive Data Types.

#### JavaScript Objects
- Student's should be able to **grok** JavaScript Objects.
- EVERYTHING IS AN OBJECT
- Student's should be able to **grok** accessing object values.

#### Functions
- Student's should be able to **grok** Functions.
- Student's should be able to **grok** invoking functions.
- Student's should be able to **grok** arguements and parameters.

#### Hoisting
- Students should be able to **explain** why hoisting is done by the interpreter.
- Recommended: Given any Javascript code snippet, the student should be able to produce on a whiteboard what the "hoisted" code may look like.

#### Throwing Errors
- Student's should be able to **grok** Throwing Errors.

#### Strict Mode
- Student's should be able to **grok** Strict Mode.
- Student's should be able to **explain** why we use strict mode and it's benifits.

#### Closures
- Students should be able to **explain** closures.
  - Closure is when a function is able to remember and access its lexical scope even when that function is executing outside its lexical scope.
- Recommended: When given code snippets, be able to identify where a closures might occur. And why closures exist in Javascript and how they are utilized.

#### Module Pattern
- Students should be able to **explain** why the module pattern is used and how to implement this pattern in javascript.
- Students should be able to create a module when asked to both in Node and Browser environments.

#### Arrays (sans functional methods)
- Students should be able to **explain** what an Array is and its uses.
- Recommended: Student should be able to correcly communicate ways of accessing and mutating values within an array.

#### Chrome Dev Tools - Source Tab
- Students should be able to **explain** what the Source Tab is in Google Chrome.
- Recommended: Students should be using this feature from here until the REST OF THEIR LIVES (or something better comes along).

#### Context, and Call, apply, bind
- Students should be able to **explain** context and how it applies and also why these methods exists along with their use cases.

#### Linked Lists
- Students should **grok** this data structure and be able to communicate its features.

# Suggested Format for Delivery

1. Intro Hoisting (half-day)
    - Present **js-basics** slides: [JS Basics](https://github.com/devleague/js-basics)
        - Whiteboard exercises: [Exercises](https://github.com/devleague/DevLeague-Modules/blob/hoisting-whiteboarding/JavascriptFundamentals/whiteboard-hoisting.md)
        - Note: Decouple hoisting from js-basic slides.
1. Functions
    - Assign **JS Functions**: [JS Functions](https://github.com/devleague/js-functions)
1. Strict Mode
    - Present **Strict Mode** slides: [Strict Mode](http://slides.com/theremix/strict-mode)\
1. Arrays (sans functional-methods)
    - Present **JS Arrays** slides: [JS Arrays](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-arrays)
    - Assign **Array Methods**: [Array Methods](https://github.com/devleague/array-methods)
1. Module Pattern
    - Present **Revealing Module Pattern** slides [Revealing Module Pattern](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-objects-module-patterns)
    - Assign [JS Calcualtor](https://github.com/devleague/js-calculator)
1. Closures
    - Present **Closures** slides [Closures](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-closures)
    - Assign assignments:
        - [Secret Number Generator](https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator)
        - [The Vault](https://github.com/devleague/The-Vault)
        - [Foreclosure](https://github.com/devleague/foreclosure) _only when done, for Advanced students_
1. Chrome Dev Tools - Debugging with Source Tab
    - Present **Chrome Dev Tools** slides: [Chrome Dev Tools](https://github.com/devleague/slides-debugging-in-browser)
1. Pair Programming & Closures
    - Assign **Cash register** [Cash Register](https://github.com/devleague/Cash-Register)
        - notes: This project can span a few days.
        - when announcing, discuss Pair Programming, Simple Single Git repo strategy, whiteboarding, and show finished examples.
            - clone both, show finished product in this order
            - [https://github.com/taylorak/Cash-Register](https://github.com/taylorak/Cash-Register)
            - [https://github.com/SpaceToastCoastToCoast/Cash-Register](https://github.com/SpaceToastCoastToCoast/Cash-Register)
        - topics: closures, modules, adds complexity of browser environment.
1. Context
    - Present **Context** slides: [Context](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-this)
1. Call, apply, bind
    - Present **Call, Apply, Bind** slides: [JS Call, Apply, Bind](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-call-apply-bind)
    - Assign **Context Exercise**: [Context Exercise](https://github.com/devleague/Context-Exercise) (needs more work)
1. Linked Lists
    - See [Linked Lists Module](https://github.com/devleague/DevLeague-Modules/tree/master/Algorithms/LinkedLists) for slides and assignments.

# Slides & Examples

#### Hoisting
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/js-basics (decouple hoisting from js-basic slide)](https://github.com/devleague/js-basics)
- Time needed to present: 1 hour 30 minutes
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Notes: It was helpful to have two sublime windows open. One window should the code typed, and in the other we show how the compiler converts our code by hoisting variables and functions. With additional resources, this can also be a soft-exercise after to help reinforce the topic.

#### Array
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-arrays](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-arrays)
- Time needed to present: 1 hour
- Type: **Assignment**
- Notes: Workshop style works well.

#### Closures
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-closures](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-closures)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 45 minutes
- Notes: A lot of abstractions in this section and live-coding and having the students drive the conversation can help ease students into topic.

#### Module Pattern
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-objects-module-patterns](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-objects-module-patterns)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 1 hour
- Notes: A lot of abstractions in this section and live-coding and having the students drive the conversation can help ease students into topic.

#### JS Calculator exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/js-calculator](https://github.com/devleague/js-calculator)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: 1 session
- Stretch Goals: Code Review, History of Calculations, etc.

#### Secret Number Generator exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator](https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: < 1 session

#### The Vault exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/The-Vault](https://github.com/devleague/The-Vault)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: < 1 session

#### Foreclosure exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator](https://github.com/devleague/Secret-Number-Generator)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: > 1 session over few days. **OK** to lecture on different topics but have students come back to this.
- Notes: This assignment is the hardest and should be assigned last.

#### Array Methods exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/array-methods](https://github.com/devleague/array-methods)
- Average Time Alotted: < session
- Type: **Assignment**

#### Chrome Dev Tools - Source Tab
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-debugging-in-browser](https://github.com/devleague/slides-debugging-in-browser)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Link: [Debugging Video from the Chrome Dev Team](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xb_0awoShR8)
- Time needed to present: 1 hour 30 minutes

#### Cash Register exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/Cash-Register](https://github.com/devleague/Cash-Register)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: > 1 session
- Notes: Adds DOM complexity.

#### Context
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-this](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-this)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 45 minutes

#### Call, Apply, Bind
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-call-apply-bind](https://github.com/devleague/slides-js-call-apply-bind)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 45 minutes

#### Linked Lists
- Link: [http://slides.com/jasonsewell/linked-lists#/](http://slides.com/jasonsewell/linked-lists#/)
- Type: **Slideshow**
- Time needed to present: 1 hour

#### Linked Lists exercise
- Link: [https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list](https://github.com/devleague/js-linked-list)
- Type: **Assignment**
- Average Time Alotted: 2 sessions
- Notes: Aim for a Friday assignment so that students can have a full day Saturday to work on this and then Monday

# Additional Resources

#### Hoisting

#### Closures
- [Closures as a Princess Story](https://gist.github.com/sgnl/9a168d695373f09f64d5dee7d985bd99)
- [You Don't Know JS - Closures and Scope](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/scope%20%26%20closures/)

#### Module Pattern

#### Arrays (sans functional methods)

#### Chrome Dev Tools - Source Tab

#### Context, and Call, apply, bind
